.\"Copyright 2011 (c) EPFL
.TH DTK_CREATE_RECTANGLE_2P 3 2011 "EPFL" "Draw Toolkit manual"
.SH NAME
dtk_create_triangle_2p, dtk_create_rectangle_hw - Create and modify rectangular shapes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.B #include <drawtk.h>
.sp
.BI "dtk_hshape dtk_create_rectangle_2p(dtk_hshape " shp ","
.br
.BI "                float " p1_x ", float " p1_y ", float " p2_x ", float " p2_y ","
.br
.BI "                int " filled ", const float *" color ");"
.br
.BI "dtk_hshape dtk_create_rectangle_hw(dtk_hshape " shp ","
.br
.BI "                float " cx ", float " cy ", float " h ", float " w ","
.br
.BI "                int " filled ", const float *" color ");"
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
\fBdtk_create_rectangle_2p\fP() creates a rectangle whose the opposing corners
are located at (\fIp1_x\fP,\fIp1_y\fP) and  (\fIp2_x\fP,\fIp2_y\fP).
.LP
\fBdtk_create_rectangle_hw\fP() creates a rectangle with height \fIh\fP and
width \fIw\fP and with its center located at (\fIcx\fP,\fIcy\fP) in the
original frame.
.LP
\fIshp\fP, \fIfilled\fP and \fIcolor\fP have the same usage and meaning as for
other shape creation function:
.IP " *" 3
\fIshp\fP can be used to modify a previously created shape. If it is non-null,
the handle will be used to modify the shape referenced by \fIshp\fP: no new
shape is created and the returned value is ensured to be \fIshp\fP in case of
success, \fINULL\fP otherwise. If \fIshp\fP is \fINULL\fP, the function will
attempt to create a new shape.
.LP
.IP " *" 3
\fIfilled\fP is set to 0 if the described shape should be a continous line or a
non-null value if the shape is supposed to be filled polygon.
.LP
.IP " *" 3
\fIcolor\fP should point to a 4 float array containing a normalized RGBA value
(i.e. each component is between 0.0 and 1.0).
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.LP
In case of success these functions return the handle to the newly created or modified
shape. If the \fIshp\fP argument is non-null, the handle returned is the
same value. In case of error, \fINULL\fP is returned.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR dtk_destroy_shape (3)


