.\"Copyright 2010-2011 (c) EPFL
.TH DTK_CREATE_IMAGE 3 2011 "EPFL" "Draw Toolkit manual"
.SH NAME
dtk_create_image - Create and modify a shape displaying an image
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.B #include <drawtk.h>
.sp
.BI "dtk_hshape dtk_create_image(dtk_hshape " shp ", "
.br
.BI "                float " x ", float " y ", float " width ", float " height ","
.br
.BI "                const float* " color ", dtk_htex " image ");"
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
\fBdtk_create_image\fP() creates a rectangle of size (\fIheight\fP,\fIwidth\fP)
centered at (\fIcx\fP,\fIcy\fP) containing the image loaded in texture
\fIimage\fP. The image will by stretched to fit the size of the rectangle
disregarding the dimension of the image. The \fIcolor\fP argument modulates the
pixel values of the image, i.e. to display the image the same way it exist in
the image file, color should be white.
.LP
\fIshp\fP and \fIcolor\fP have the same usage and meaning as for
other shape creation function:
.IP " *" 3
\fIshp\fP can be used to modify a previously created shape. If it is non-null,
the handle will be used to modify the shape referenced by \fIshp\fP: no new
shape is created and the returned value is ensured to be \fIshp\fP in case of
success, \fINULL\fP otherwise. If \fIshp\fP is \fINULL\fP, the function will
attempt to create a new shape.
.LP
.IP " *" 3
\fIcolor\fP should point to a 4 float array containing a normalized RGBA value
(i.e. each component is between 0.0 and 1.0).
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.LP
In case of success these functions return the handle to the newly created or modified
shape. If the \fIshp\fP argument is non-null, the handle returned is the
same value. In case of error, \fINULL\fP is returned.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR dtk_destroy_shape (3),
.BR dtk_load_image (3)
