.\"Copyright 2010 (c) EPFL
.TH DTK_CREATE_SHAPE 3 2010 "EPFL" "Draw Toolkit manual"
.SH NAME
dtk_create_string - Creates a shape displaying a string
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.B #include <drawtk.h>
.sp
.BI "dtk_hshape dtk_create_string(dtk_hshape " shp ", const char *" text ","
.br
.BI "                             float " size ", float " x ", float " y ","
.br
.BI "                             unsigned int " alignment ","
.br
.BI "                             const float *" color ", dtk_hfont " font ");"
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
\fBdtk_create_string\fP() creates a text specified by \fIstr_text\fP at
location (\fIx\fP,\fIy\fP) with a font size of \fIsize\fP using a previously
loaded font referenced by \fIfont\fP argument. 
.LP
The position (\fIx\fP,\fIy\fP) is interpreted according to the combination
of flags controlling the vertical and horizontal alignment defined in the
\fIalignment\fP argument:
.IP " *" 3
\fBDTK_BOTTOM\fP, \fBDTK_VMID\fP and \fBDTK_TOP\fP make the value \fIy\fP to
be interpreted as respectively the bottom, the middle and the top of the
bounding box of the shape.
.IP " *" 3
\fBDTK_LEFT\fP, \fBDTK_HMID\fP and \fBDTK_RIGHT\fP make the value \fIx\fP to
be interpreted as respectively the left, the middle and the right of the
bounding box of the shape.
.LP
\fIshp\fP and \fIcolor\fP has the same usage and meaning than in other shape
creation functions (see \fBdtk_create_shape\fP(3)):
.IP " *" 3
\fIshp\fP can be used to modify a previously created shape. If it is
non-null, the handle will be used to modify the shape referenced by
\fIshp\fP: no new shape is created and the returned value is ensured to be
\fIshp\fP in case of success, \fINULL\fP otherwise. If \fIshp\fP is
\fINULL\fP, the function will attempt to create a new shape.
.IP " *" 3
\fIcolor\fP should point to a 4 float array containing a normalized RGBA
value (i.e. each component is between 0.0 and 1.0).
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.LP
In case of success the function returns the handle to the newly created or
modified shape. If the \fIshp\fP argument is non-null, the handle returned
is the same value. In case of error, \fINULL\fP is returned.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR dtk_create_string (3)

