.\"Copyright 2010-2012 (c) EPFL
.TH DTK_CREATE_CIRCLE_STR 3 2012 "EPFL" "Draw Toolkit manual"
.SH NAME
dtk_create_circle_str - Create and modify circular strip
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.B #include <drawtk.h>
.sp
.BI "dtk_hshape dtk_create_circle_str(dtk_hshape " shp ","
.br
.BI "                float " cx ", float " cy ", float " r ", float " thick ","
.br
.BI "                const float *" color ", unsigned int " numpoints ");"
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
\fBdtk_create_circle_str\fP() creates an approximation of a circular strip of radius
\fIr\fP centered at (\fIcx\fP,\fIcy\fP) using \fInum_points\fP vertices. The
radius \fIr\fP is always referred to the outer circle. 
.LP
\fIthick\fP represents the thickness of the strip. If \fIthick\fP is negative
or greater than \fIr\fP, the call fails.
.LP
\fIshp\fP and \fIcolor\fP have the same usage and meaning as for
other shape creation function:
.IP " *" 3
\fIshp\fP can be used to modify a previously created shape. If it is non-null,
the handle will be used to modify the shape referenced by \fIshp\fP.  If
\fIshp\fP is \fINULL\fP, the function will attempt to create a new shape.
.LP
.IP " *" 3
\fIcolor\fP should point to a 4 float array containing a normalized RGBA value
(i.e. each component is between 0.0 and 1.0).
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.LP
In case of success these functions return the handle to the newly created or
modified shape. If the \fIshp\fP argument is non-null, the handle returned is
the same value. In case of error, \fINULL\fP is returned. If \fIthick\fP is
negative or greater than \fIr\fP, \fINULL\fP is returned.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR dtk_create_circle (3), dtk_destroy_shape (3)


