.\"Copyright 2011 (c) EPFL
.TH DTK_LOAD_VIDEO_GST 3 2010 "EPFL" "Draw Toolkit manual"
.SH NAME
dtk_load_video_gst - Load the sink of gstreamer pipeline as a texture
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.B #include <dtk_video.h>
.sp
.BI "dtk_htex dtk_load_video_gst(int " flags ", const char *" desc ");"
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
This function loads as a dynamic texture the video stream arriving into the 
sink of a gstreamer pipeline. The pipeline description \fIdesc\fP should
follows the syntax used in the \fBgst-launch\fP(1) utility and it must
contains an video sink of type \fBappsink\fP named \fBdtksink\fP that will
be used to get the data for the dynamic texture. The texture will then been
tracked by an internal texture manager so that the next call using the same 
\fIdesc\fP argument will return the same texture handle, thus sparing the
ressources of the system. If not specified by \fIflags\fP the video will not
be played immediately and \fBdtk_video_exec\fP(3) should be called to do
start playing.
.LP
The argument \fIflags\fP is used to modify the creation. It should contains
a bitwise OR combination of the following flags:
.IP
\fBDTKV_AUTOSTART\fP : Indicates that the video should start immediately
after creation.
.LP
A dynamic texture can be used the same way as a static texture (for example
image file). The only difference is that the content of the texture changes
automatically with the stream of video. This means that every time a shape
using this texture is drawn, the latest frame available from the video
stream will be mapped on the shape.
.LP
There is no need for a valid window to create successfully a texture, i.e.
creation of textures are completely decoupled from the creation of others
ressources and can even be created in one thread to be used in another one.
.LP
Once a the texture is stopped being used, it should be destroyed by
\fBdtk_destroy_texture\fP(3).
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.LP
In case of success, the function returns the handle to the created texture.
In case of failure, \fINULL\fP is returned.
.SH "THREAD SAFETY"
.LP
\fBdtk_load_video_gst\fP() is thread-safe.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR gst-launch (1),
.BR dtk_destroy_texture (3),
.BR dtk_video_exec (3),
.BR dtk_video_getstate (3)


