.\"Copyright 2011 (c) EPFL
.TH DTK_LOAD_VIDEO_UDP 3 2011 "EPFL" "Draw Toolkit manual"
.SH NAME
dtk_load_video_udp - Load an video stream via UDP connection as a texture
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.B #include <dtk_video.h>
.sp
.BI "dtk_htex dtk_load_video_udp(int " flags ", int " port ");"
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
This function loads as a dynamic texture the video stream broadcasted over
the network via UDP by listening to the port \fIport\fP. The texture will
then been tracked by an internal texture manager so that the next call using
the same \fIport\fP arguments will return the same texture handle, thus
sparing the ressources of the system. If not specified by \fIflags\fP the
video will not be played immediately and \fBdtk_video_exec\fP(3) should be
called to do start playing.
.LP
The argument \fIflags\fP is used to modify the creation. It should contains
a bitwise OR combination of the following flags:
.IP
\fBDTK_AUTOSTART\fP : Indicates that the video should start immediately
after creation.
.LP
A dynamic texture can be used the same way as a static texture (for example
image file). The only difference is that the content of the texture changes
automatically with the stream of video. This means that every time a shape
using this texture is drawn, the latest frame available from the video
stream will be mapped on the shape.
.LP
There is no need for a valid window to create successfully a texture, i.e.
creation of textures are completely decoupled from the creation of others
ressources and can even be created in one thread to be used in another one.
.LP
Once a the texture is stopped being used, it should be destroyed by
\fBdtk_destroy_texture\fP(3).
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.LP
In case of success, the function returns the handle to the created texture.
In case of failure, \fINULL\fP is returned.
.SH "THREAD SAFETY"
.LP
\fBdtk_load_video_udp\fP() is thread-safe.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR dtk_destroy_texture (3),
.BR dtk_video_exec (3),
.BR dtk_video_getstate (3)
