.\"Copyright 2010-2011 (c) EPFL
.TH DTK_CREATE_ARROW 3 2011 "EPFL" "Draw Toolkit manual"
.SH NAME
dtk_create_arrow - Create and modify arrow shape
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.B #include <drawtk.h>
.sp
.BI "dtk_hshape dtk_create_arrow(dtk_hshape " shp ","
.br
.BI "                float " cx ", float " cy ", float " width ", float " height ","
.br
.BI "                int " filled ", const float *" color ");"
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
\fBdtk_create_arrow\fP() creates an arrow pointing to the left with the pointed
pointed located at (\fIcx\fP,\fIcy\fP) with a total width of \fIwidth\fP, a hat
of length \fIwidth\fP/3 , a total height of \fIheight\fP and the width of the
body being \fIheight\fP/2.
.LP
\fIshp\fP, \fIfilled\fP and \fIcolor\fP have the same usage and meaning as for
other shape creation function:
.IP " *" 3
\fIshp\fP can be used to modify a previously created shape. If it is non-null,
the handle will be used to modify the shape referenced by \fIshp\fP: no new
shape is created and the returned value is ensured to be \fIshp\fP in case of
success, \fINULL\fP otherwise. If \fIshp\fP is \fINULL\fP, the function will
attempt to create a new shape.
.LP
.IP " *" 3
\fIfilled\fP is set to 0 if the described shape should be a continous line or a
non-null value if the shape is supposed to be filled polygon.
.LP
.IP " *" 3
\fIcolor\fP should point to a 4 float array containing a normalized RGBA value
(i.e. each component is between 0.0 and 1.0).
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.LP
In case of success these functions return the handle to the newly created or modified
shape. If the \fIshp\fP argument is non-null, the handle returned is the
same value. In case of error, \fINULL\fP is returned.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR dtk_destroy_shape (3)


